bluewaters/README.md, before:

# Running on NCSA Blue Waters

## Running with Torque

To submit jobs to run on Portable Batch System (PBS) Torque, write a PBS submission file, and then submit the PBS job to Torque using `qsub`.

For example, `drell-yan/madgraph5.pbs` defines all the commands required to run the example MadGraph5 simulation for Drell-Yan defined in `configs/madgraph5/drell-yan.mg5` on Shifter inside a specified container.
So the PBS job file (`drell-yan/madgraph5.pbs`) is where you define what you want to have happen, and then you submit it with `qsub` just using a 1 command Bash script (`run_madgraph5.sh`) for easy of use and to make keeping track of workflows easier.

Once jobs are submitted they can be tracked in the batch system with

```console
qstat -u $USER
```

### Example: Drell-Yan

* Ensure there is a MadGraph5 steering script at `configs/madgraph5/drell-yan.mg5`
* One would then submit the Drell-Yan job with

```console
bash run_madgraph5.sh drell-yan
```

to generate LHE and HEPMC2 simulation files

* Then once the MadGraph5 and PYTHIA8 simulation is done, run DELPHES on the HEPMC2 input with

```console
bash run_delphes.sh drell-yan
```

* To then run the preprocessing needed for MoMEMta to run, run

```console
bash run_preprocessing.sh drell-yan
```

## Interactive Session

If you need to run an interactive session (which will be slower) you can first allocate resources on the `shifter` queue from Torque with `qsub`

```console
qsub -I -l gres=shifter -l nodes=1:ppn=8:xk -l walltime=03:00:00
```

Once the job has been submitted and the interactive prompt returns, you can run `aprun` commands directly, as seen in the `aprun_shifter_interactive.sh` example script.

Commit message:

feat: Add MoMEMta Drell-Yan hypothesis example (#8)
* Add momemta directory for Drell-Yan hypothesis using MoMEMta-MaGMEE plugin
   - c.f. configs/momemta/drell-yan.mg5 for MoMEMta-MaGMEE MadGraph5 config
   - Add CLI arguments to momemta/drell-yan/drell-yan_example.cxx to set paths and options
- Add lep1_PID branch to preprocessing/scripts/HistCollections.py for use in MoMEMta example
* Add Blue Waters example and PBS submission scripts
* Update .gitignore for ROOT files and generated MatrixElements/ directory

bluewaters/README.md, after:

# Running on NCSA Blue Waters

## Running with Torque

To submit jobs to run on Portable Batch System (PBS) Torque, write a PBS submission file, and then submit the PBS job to Torque using `qsub`.

For example, `drell-yan/madgraph5.pbs` defines all the commands required to run the example MadGraph5 simulation for Drell-Yan defined in `configs/madgraph5/drell-yan.mg5` on Shifter inside a specified container.
So the PBS job file (`drell-yan/madgraph5.pbs`) is where you define what you want to have happen, and then you submit it with `qsub` just using a 1 command Bash script (`run_madgraph5.sh`) for easy of use and to make keeping track of workflows easier.

Once jobs are submitted they can be tracked in the batch system with

```console
qstat -u $USER
```

### Example: Drell-Yan

* Ensure there is a MadGraph5 steering script at `configs/madgraph5/drell-yan.mg5`
* One would then submit the Drell-Yan job with

```console
bash run_madgraph5.sh drell-yan
```

to generate LHE and HEPMC2 simulation files

* Then once the MadGraph5 and PYTHIA8 simulation is done, run DELPHES on the HEPMC2 input with

```console
bash run_delphes.sh drell-yan
```

* To then run the preprocessing needed for MoMEMta to run, run

```console
bash run_preprocessing.sh drell-yan
```

* To then finally run MoMEMta for the hypothesis described with the [MoMEMta-MaGMEE](https://github.com/MoMEMta/MoMEMta-MaGMEE) MadGraph5 plugin run

```console
bash run_momemta.sh drell-yan
```

## Interactive Session

If you need to run an interactive session (which will be slower) you can first allocate resources on the `shifter` queue from Torque with `qsub`

```console
qsub -I -l gres=shifter -l nodes=1:ppn=8:xk -l walltime=03:00:00
```

Once the job has been submitted and the interactive prompt returns, you can run `aprun` commands directly, as seen in the `aprun_shifter_interactive.sh` example script.
